Introducing the Immunity Debugger
We can use an application
called a debugger
to assist with the exploit
development process.
A debugger acts as a proxy between
the application and the CPU,
and it allows us to stop the
execution flow at any time
to inspect the content of the registers as
well as the process memory space.
While running an application
through a debugger,
we can also execute assembly
instructions one at a time
to better understand the detailed
flow of the code.
Although there are many debuggers
available, we’ll use Immunity Debugger,
which has a relatively simple
interface and allows us to use
Python scripts to automate tasks.
We can attempt to overflow the buffer in
our vulnerable test application
and use Immunity Debugger to
better understand what exactly happens
at each stage of the program execution.
To execute the vulnerable program,
we’ll open it via the File menu.
In the dialog, we select strcpy.exe,
which is the compiled version of
the source code we analyzed earlier.
Prior to clicking Open, we’ll add twelve
“A” characters to the Arguments field.
These 12 characters will serve as the
command-line argument to the program
and will subsequently be used
by the string copy function.
When the debugger launches
the application,
the execution flow of the program
will be paused at the entry point.
Unfortunately, in this example,
the entry point does not coincide
with the beginning of the main function.
This is not uncommon as often the
entry point is set by the compiler
to a section of code created to help
prepare the execution of the program.
Among other things, this preparation
includes setting up
all the arguments that main may expect.
Before going further, let’s become
more familiar with Immunity
and practice navigating the
most relevant features.
The main screen is split into
four windows or panes.
The upper left window shows the assembly
instructions that make up the application
The instruction highlighted
in blue, SUB ESP, 0C
is the assembly instruction to be
executed next and its location in the
process memory space is displayed
in the left-most column.
The upper right window
contains all the registers,
including the two we are most
interested in: ESP and EIP.
Since, by definition, EIP points to the
next code instruction to be executed,
it's set to the address of the instruction
highlighted in the assembly window.
The lower right window show
the stack and its content.
This view contains four columns:
a memory address,
the hex data residing
at that address,
an ASCII representation of the data,
and a dynamic commentary that
provides additional information
related to a particular
stack entry when available.
The data itself (in the second column)
is displayed as a 32-bit value,
called a DWORD, displayed
as four hexadecimal bytes.
Note that the address at
the top of this pane
is identical to the value stored
in ESP in the register window.
The final window, in the lower left,
shows the contents of
memory at any given address.
Similar to the stack window,
it shows three columns
including the memory address
and the hex and ASCII
representations of the data.
As the name suggests,
this window can be helpful while
searching for or analyzing specific
values in the process memory space
and it can show data in different formats
by right-clicking on the window content
to access the contextual menu: